post on bounding-box annotations (#3)
eoss-image-processing/eoss-image-processing.github.io: _posts/2020-09-09-bounding-box-annotation.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Building a training set thanks to bounding-box annotations"
author:	Nicholas Esterer and Emmanuelle Gouillart
---

![Screenshot of bounding box app](/assets/bounding-box-app.png)

Image processing tasks such as object detection or segmentation are often

> performed using deep learning. In order to train a neural net, one must first

Reviewer: maybe? not sure how formal the context is
```suggestion
performed using deep learning. In order to train a neural network, one must first
```

build a training set, which requires annotating a large set of images.
Commercial tools and open-source tools (such as [VIA](http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/software/via/)
or [VoTT](https://github.com/microsoft/VoTT)) are available in order to annotate batches of images.

> We have built a [demo Dash app for annotating batches of images](https://dash-gallery.plotly.host/dash-image-annotation/),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have built a [Dash app demo for annotating batches of images](https://dash-gallery.plotly.host/dash-image-annotation/),
```

which you can adapt to integrate an image annotator into your image processing
workflow.

> The app can be seen on https://dash-gallery.plotly.host/dash-image-annotation/,

Reviewer: This way the link is also clickable
```suggestion
The app can be seen at [https://dash-gallery.plotly.host/dash-image-annotation/](https://dash-gallery.plotly.host/dash-image-annotation/),
```

> and its source code is available on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and its source code is available at
```

> https://github.com/plotly/dash-sample-apps/tree/master/apps/dash-image-annotation.

Reviewer: same as above
```suggestion
[https://github.com/plotly/dash-sample-apps/tree/master/apps/dash-image-annotation](https://github.com/plotly/dash-sample-apps/tree/master/apps/dash-image-annotation).
```

## Drawing bounding boxes on images

Image data can be visualized in plotly figures using the `px.imshow` function
from `plotly.express` or the `go.Image` trace, as explained in the [image
visualization tutorial of the plotly documentation](https://plotly.com/python/imshow/). 
In order to draw rectangles to annotate an image, you must select a drawing

> tool for the figure `dragmode`, here `drawrect` for drawing a rectangle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tool for the figure's `dragmode`, here `drawrect` for drawing a rectangle.
```

```python
import plotly.express as px
from skimage import data
img = data.chelsea()
fig = px.imshow(img)
fig.update_layout(
    dragmode='drawrect',
    newshape_line_color='cyan')
)
fig.show()
```

> With the `newshape` attribute of the figure layout, you can style the drawn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `newshape` attribute of the figure's layout, you can style the drawn
```
or if you want to be closer to the code's syntax, maybe
```suggestion
With the `newshape` attribute of `fig.layout`, you can style the drawn
```

rectangles (line width, color, ...). 

![Screenshot of bounding box app](/assets/imshow-chelsea-bb.png)

> If you want the rectangle icon to appear in the figure modebar (this is useful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want the rectangle icon to appear in the figure's modebar (this is useful
```

> to select back the rectangle-drawing tool after selecting the pan or zoom mode,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to reselect the rectangle-drawing tool after selecting the pan or zoom mode,
```

for example), you can pass a list of buttons to add, corresponding to the

> different drawing tools. The whole list is given below but you can select only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
different drawing tools. The whole list is given below but you can choose to select only
```

some of them.

```python
fig.show(config={'modeBarButtonsToAdd':['drawline',
                                        'drawopenpath',
                                        'drawclosedpath',
                                        'drawcircle',
                                        'drawrect',
                                        'eraseshape'
                                       ]})
```

## Annotations and Dash callbacks

Drawing a new annotation triggers [a `relayout` event of the plotly figure](https://dash.plotly.com/interactive-graphing),

> which can be used as `Input` of a Dash callback. Here, the callback stores the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which can be used as an `Input` to a Dash callback. Here, the callback stores the
```

> geometry of the annotation in a `dcc.Store` object so that it can persist when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
geometry of the annotation in a `dcc.Store` object so that it persists when
```

> the user switches to another image to annotate. A previous and a next button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the user switches to another image to annotate. A "previous" and "next" button
```

> update the image in the figure so that it is possible to annotate easily whole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
update the image in the figure so that it is easy to annotate whole
```

batches of images.

Conversely, when navigating back to an image previously annotated, the plotly

> figure is the `Output` of a callback, and annotations retrieved from the Store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
figure is the `Output` of a callback, and annotations retrieved from the `dcc.Store`
```

> are simply added to the figure layout so that they are displayed to the user.

Reviewer: figure's layout or `fig.layout` like above

## Interactive data table

Annotations can be modified either in the figure or in the interactive data
table, which are all updated thanks to a specific callback, and a `dcc.Store`

> component with the data of the annotations. For example if you draw an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Annotations can be modified either in the figure or in the interactive data
table, because the `modify_table_entries` callback, with the graph's `relayoutData` as input, is chained to the `send_figure_to_graph` callback, which has the table's `data` as input, while the annotation data is stored in a `dcc.Store`.  This way the `send_figure_to_graph` callback is indifferent to the history of user interaction: it updates the graph if the table was changed or if the graph was drawn on. For example if you draw an
```

> annotation with the wrong label (say car instead of tree), the easiest way to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
annotation with the wrong label (say "car" instead of "tree"), the easiest way to
```

correct this is to use the "Type" dropdown in the table. This will update the

> color of the annotation in the figure, and the Store. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
color of the annotation in the figure, and the `dcc.Store`. 
```

See the [tutorial on Dash data tables](https://dash.plotly.com/datatable) for more details about
interactive data tables in Dash. 

## What's next? 

> We hope you like this app. Suggestions are welcome, and can be submitted via the [source

Reviewer: Just adding some excitement here :)
```suggestion
We hope you enjoyed this app! Suggestions are welcome, and can be submitted via the [source
```

repo](https://github.com/plotly/dash-sample-apps/) or [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/EGouillart).

If you need to annotate images to build a training set, you can adapt this
open-source app
to your application. Thanks to the modularity of Dash applications, you can for
example:

* use labels corresponding to your applications (e.g. different kinds of cells
  in cell biology) 
* retrieve images from a URL such as an S3 bucket

> * ask annotators to enter their name thanks to an input field or a dropdown,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ask annotators to enter their name using an input field or a dropdown,
```

  since it's usually considered good practice to have several people annotating
  the same dataset, in order to reduce user bias. Since Dash is stateless, it
  is possible to have several possible annotating images at the same time,
  without any conflict.
* connect the image annotation task to the training of a neural net, etc.

> You can also be interested in checking out the [Dash app on live model training](https://dash-gallery.plotly.host/dash-live-model-training/) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might also be interested in checking out the [Dash app on live model training](https://dash-gallery.plotly.host/dash-live-model-training/) 
```

(and its [source code](https://github.com/plotly/dash-sample-apps/tree/master/apps/dash-live-model-training)),
and the Dash app on [object detection using a pre-trained state-of-the-art
neural net](https://dash-gallery.plotly.host/dash-detr/) (and its [source code](https://github.com/plotly/dash-detr)).

> Finally, you could also be interested in reading the other posts of this blog, for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can also check out other related posts from this blog, for
```
